add doc for tiflash query level spill (#14885)
pingcap/docs: tiflash/tiflash-spill-disk.md

## Trigger the spilling

> TiFlash provides two triggering mechanisms to spill data to disk.

Author: ```suggestion
TiFlash provides two triggering mechanisms for spilling data to disk.
```

* Operator-level spilling: by specifing the data spilling threshold for each operator, you can control when TiFlash spills data of that operator to disk.

> * Query-level spilling: by specifing the maximum memory usage of a query on a TiFlash node and the spilling ratio, you can control when TiFlash spills data of supported operators in a query to disk as needed.

Author: ```suggestion
* Query-level spilling: by specifing the maximum memory usage of a query on a TiFlash node and the memory ratio for spilling, you can control when TiFlash spills data of supported operators in a query to disk as needed.
```

    [DEBUG] [MemoryTracker.cpp:69] ["Peak memory usage (total): 29.55 GiB."] [source=MemoryTracker] [thread_id=468]
    ```

> 4. Execute the following statements. This statement limits the memory usage of the Hash Aggregation operator with `GROUP BY` keys to 10737418240 (10 GiB).

Author: ```suggestion
4. Execute the following statement. This statement limits the memory usage of the Hash Aggregation operator with `GROUP BY` keys to 10737418240 (10 GiB).
```

    [DEBUG] [MemoryTracker.cpp:69] ["Peak memory usage (total): 12.80 GiB."] [source=MemoryTracker] [thread_id=110]
    ```

### Query-level spilling

Starting from v7.4.0, TiFlash supports automatic spilling at the query level. You can control this feature using the following system variables:

> * [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740): controls the maximum memory usage of a query on a TiFlash node.

Author: ```suggestion
* [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740): limits the maximum memory usage of a query on a TiFlash node.
```

If both `tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node` and `tiflash_query_spill_ratio` are set to values greater than 0, TiFlash automatically triggers spilling for supported operators in a query when the memory usage of a query exceeds `tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node * tiflash_query_spill_ratio`.

#### Example

This example constructs a SQL statement that consumes a lot of memory to demonstrate the query-level spilling.

1. Prepare the environment. Create a TiFlash cluster with 2 nodes and import the TPCH-100 data.

2. Execute the following statements. These statements do not limit the memory usage of the query or the memory usage of the Hash Aggregation operator with `GROUP BY` keys.

    ```sql
    SET tidb_max_bytes_before_tiflash_external_group_by = 0;
    SET tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node = 0;
    SET tiflash_query_spill_ratio = 0;
    SELECT
      l_orderkey,
      MAX(L_COMMENT),
      MAX(L_SHIPMODE),
      MAX(L_SHIPINSTRUCT),
      MAX(L_SHIPDATE),
      MAX(L_EXTENDEDPRICE)
    FROM lineitem
    GROUP BY l_orderkey
    HAVING SUM(l_quantity) > 314;
    ```

> 3. From the log of TiFlash, you can see that the query needs to consume 29.55 GiB of memory on a single TiFlash node:

Author: ```suggestion
3. From the log of TiFlash, you can see that the query consumes 29.55 GiB of memory on a single TiFlash node:
```

    ```
    [DEBUG] [MemoryTracker.cpp:69] ["Peak memory usage (total): 29.55 GiB."] [source=MemoryTracker] [thread_id=468]
    ```

4. Execute the following statements. These statements limit the maximum memory usage of the query on a TiFlash node to 5 GiB.

    ```sql
    SET tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node = 5368709120;
    SET tiflash_query_spill_ratio = 0.7;
    SELECT
      l_orderkey,
      MAX(L_COMMENT),
      MAX(L_SHIPMODE),
      MAX(L_SHIPINSTRUCT),
      MAX(L_SHIPDATE),
      MAX(L_EXTENDEDPRICE)
    FROM lineitem
    GROUP BY l_orderkey
    HAVING SUM(l_quantity) > 314;
    ```

5. From the log of TiFlash, you can see that by configuring query-level spilling, TiFlash triggers the spilling of intermediate results, significantly reducing the memory used by the query.

    ```
    [DEBUG] [MemoryTracker.cpp:101] ["Peak memory usage (for query): 3.94 GiB."] [source=MemoryTracker] [thread_id=1547]
    ```

## Notes

* When the Hash Aggregation operator does not have a `GROUP BY` key, it does not support spilling. Even if the Hash Aggregation operator contains a distinct aggregation function, it does not support spilling.

> * Currently, the threshold for operator-level spilling is calculated for each operator. If the query-level spilling is not configured, a query contains two Hash Aggregation operators, and the threshold of the operator is set to 10 GiB, then the two Hash Aggregation operators will only spill data when their respective memory usage exceeds 10 GiB.

Author: ```suggestion
* Currently, the threshold for operator-level spilling is calculated for each operator. When the query-level spilling is not configured, for a query containing two Hash Aggregation operators, if the threshold of the operator is set to 10 GiB, each of the two Hash Aggregation operators will only spill data when their respective memory usage exceeds 10 GiB.
```

> * Currently, the threshold for operator-level spilling is calculated for each operator. When the query-level spilling is not configured, for a query containing two Hash Aggregation operators, if the threshold of the operator is set to 10 GiB, each of the two Hash Aggregation operators will only spill data when their respective memory usage exceeds 10 GiB.

Author: ```suggestion
* Currently, the threshold for operator-level spilling is calculated for each operator separately. When the query-level spilling is not configured, for a query containing two Hash Aggregation operators, if the threshold of the operator is set to 10 GiB, each of the two Hash Aggregation operators will only spill data when their respective memory usage exceeds 10 GiB.
```

> * Currently, the threshold for operator-level spilling is calculated for each operator separately. For a query containing two Hash Aggregation operators, if the query-level spilling is not configured and the threshold of the operator is set to 10 GiB, the two Hash Aggregation operators will only spill data when their respective memory usage exceeds 10 GiB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Currently, the threshold for operator-level spilling is calculated for each operator separately. For a query containing two Hash Aggregation operators, if the query-level spilling is not configured and the threshold of the aggregation operator is set to 10 GiB, the two Hash Aggregation operators will only spill data when their respective memory usage exceeds 10 GiB.
```

> * Currently, the threshold for operator-level spilling is calculated for each operator separately. For a query containing two Hash Aggregation operators, if the query-level spilling is not configured and the threshold of the operator is set to 10 GiB, each of the two Hash Aggregation operators will only spill data when their respective memory usage exceeds 10 GiB.

Author: ```suggestion
* Currently, the threshold for operator-level spilling is calculated for each operator separately. For a query containing two Hash Aggregation operators, if the query-level spilling is not configured and the threshold of the operator is set to 10 GiB, the two Hash Aggregation operators will only spill data when their respective memory usage exceeds 10 GiB.
```

* When query-level spilling is configured (that is, both [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) and [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740) are greater than 0), TiFlash ignores spilling thresholds of individual operators and automatically triggers spilling for relevant operators in a query based on the query-level spilling thresholds.
* Even when query-level spilling is configured, if none of the operators used in a query support spilling, the intermediate computation results of that query still cannot be spilled to disk. In this case, when the memory usage of that query exceeds the related threshold, TiFlash will return an error and terminate the query.

> * Even when query-level spilling is configured and a query contains operators that support spilling, the query might still return an error due to exceeding memory thresholds if other non-spilling operators in the query consume too much memory or if the spilling operators do not spill to disk timely. To address situations where spilling operators do not spill to disk in time, you can try reducing [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-introduced-in-v740) to avoid memory threshold errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Even when query-level spilling is configured and a query contains operators that support spilling, the query might still return an error due to exceeding memory thresholds in either of the following scenarios:
    - Other non-spilling operators in the query consume too much memory.
    - The spilling operators do not spill to disk timely.
    To address situations where spilling operators do not spill to disk in time, you can try reducing [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-introduced-in-v740) to avoid memory threshold errors.
```

* When query-level spilling is configured (that is, both [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) and [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740) are greater than 0), TiFlash ignores spilling thresholds of individual operators and automatically triggers spilling for relevant operators in a query based on the query-level spilling thresholds.
* Even when query-level spilling is configured, if none of the operators used in a query support spilling, the intermediate computation results of that query still cannot be spilled to disk. In this case, when the memory usage of that query exceeds the related threshold, TiFlash will return an error and terminate the query.
* Even when query-level spilling is configured and a query contains operators that support spilling, the query might still return an error due to exceeding memory thresholds in either of the following scenarios:
    - Other non-spilling operators in the query consume too much memory.
    - The spilling operators do not spill to disk timely.

>   To address situations where spilling operators do not spill to disk in time, you can try reducing [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-introduced-in-v740) to avoid memory threshold errors.

Author: ```suggestion

  To address situations where spilling operators do not spill to disk in time, you can try reducing [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-introduced-in-v740) to avoid memory threshold errors.
```

    ```

### Query-level spilling

Starting from v7.4.0, TiFlash supports automatic spilling at the query level. You can control this feature using the following system variables:

* [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740): limits the maximum memory usage for a query on a TiFlash node.
* [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740): controls the memory ratio that triggers data spilling.

If both `tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node` and `tiflash_query_spill_ratio` are set to values greater than 0, TiFlash automatically triggers spilling for supported operators in a query when the memory usage of a query exceeds `tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node * tiflash_query_spill_ratio`.

#### Example

This example constructs a SQL statement that consumes a lot of memory to demonstrate the query-level spilling.

1. Prepare the environment. Create a TiFlash cluster with 2 nodes and import the TPCH-100 data.

2. Execute the following statements. These statements do not limit the memory usage of the query or the memory usage of the Hash Aggregation operator with `GROUP BY` keys.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

* When query-level spilling is configured (that is, both [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) and [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740) are greater than 0), TiFlash ignores spilling thresholds of individual operators and automatically triggers spilling for relevant operators in a query based on the query-level spilling thresholds.
* Even when query-level spilling is configured, if none of the operators used in a query support spilling, the intermediate computation results of that query still cannot be spilled to disk. In this case, when the memory usage of that query exceeds the related threshold, TiFlash will return an error and terminate the query.
* Even when query-level spilling is configured and a query contains operators that support spilling, the query might still return an error due to exceeding memory thresholds in either of the following scenarios:
    - Other non-spilling operators in the query consume too much memory.
    - The spilling operators do not spill to disk timely.

>   To address situations where spilling operators do not spill to disk in time, you can try reducing [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-introduced-in-v740) to avoid memory threshold errors.

Author: ```suggestion
  To address situations where spilling operators do not spill to disk in time, you can try reducing [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740) to avoid memory threshold errors.
```
